README.md, before:

[Introduction](./README.md) | [简体中文](./README_CN.md) ｜[はじめに](./README_JP.md)

---

# About The
[![ts-fsrs npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ts-fsrs.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ts-fsrs)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ts-fsrs)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ts-fsrs)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/graph/badge.svg?token=E3KLLDL8QH)](https://codecov.io/gh/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs)
[![Build and Publish](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/npm-publish.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/npm-publish.yml)
[![Deploy](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/deploy.yml)

ts-fsrs is a [ES modules package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c) based on TypeScript, used to implement the [Free Spaced Repetition Scheduler (FSRS) algorithm](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/free-spaced-repetition-scheduler). It helps
developers apply FSRS to their flashcard applications, there by improving the user learning experience.

# Usage
You need to run on Node.js (>=16.0.0) , using the `"type":"module"` by default in `package.json`.

```
npm install ts-fsrs
yarn install ts-fsrs
pnpm install ts-fsrs
```

# Example

```typescript
import {createEmptyCard, formatDate, fsrs, generatorParameters, Rating, Grades} from 'ts-fsrs';

const params = generatorParameters({ enable_fuzz: true });
const f = fsrs(params);
const card = createEmptyCard(new Date('2022-2-1 10:00:00'));// createEmptyCard();
const now = new Date('2022-2-2 10:00:00');// new Date();
const scheduling_cards = f.repeat(card, now);

// console.log(scheduling_cards);
Grades.forEach(grade => { // [Rating.Again, Rating.Hard, Rating.Good, Rating.Easy]
    const { log, card } = scheduling_cards[grade];
    console.group(`${Rating[grade]}`);
    console.table({
        [`card_${Rating[grade]}`]: {
            ...card,
            due: formatDate(card.due),
            last_review: formatDate(card.last_review as Date),
        },
    });
    console.table({
        [`log_${Rating[grade]}`]: {
            ...log,
            review: formatDate(log.review),
        },
    });
    console.groupEnd();
    console.log('----------------------------------------------------------------');
});
```

More refer:
- [Docs - Github Pages](https://open-spaced-repetition.github.io/ts-fsrs/)
- [Example.html - Github Pages](https://open-spaced-repetition.github.io/ts-fsrs/example)
- [Browser](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/blob/master/example/example.html) (ts-fsrs package using CDN)
- [ts-fsrs-demo - Next.js+Prisma](https://github.com/ishiko732/ts-fsrs-demo)
- [spaced - Next.js+Drizzle+tRPC](https://github.com/zsh-eng/spaced)

# Basic Use 

## 1. **Initialization**:
To begin, create an empty card instance and set the current date(default: current time from system):

```typescript
import { Card, createEmptyCard } from "ts-fsrs";
let card: Card = createEmptyCard();
// createEmptyCard(new Date('2022-2-1 10:00:00'));
// createEmptyCard(new Date(Date.UTC(2023, 9, 18, 14, 32, 3, 370)));
// createEmptyCard(new Date('2023-09-18T14:32:03.370Z'));
```

## 2. **Parameter Configuration**:
The library allows for customization of SRS parameters. Use `generatorParameters` to produce the final set of parameters for the SRS algorithm. Here's an example setting a maximum interval:

```typescript
import { Card, createEmptyCard, generatorParameters, FSRSParameters } from "ts-fsrs";
let card: Card = createEmptyCard();
const params: FSRSParameters = generatorParameters({ maximum_interval: 1000 });
```

## 3. **Scheduling with FSRS**:
The core functionality lies in the `fsrs` function. When invoked, it returns a collection of cards scheduled based on different potential user ratings:

```typescript
import {
  Card,
  createEmptyCard,
  generatorParameters,
  FSRSParameters,
  FSRS,
  RecordLog,
} from "ts-fsrs";

let card: Card = createEmptyCard();
const f: FSRS = new FSRS(); // or const f: FSRS = fsrs(params);
let scheduling_cards: RecordLog = f.repeat(card, new Date());
```

## 4. **Retrieving Scheduled Cards**:
Once you have the `scheduling_cards` object, you can retrieve cards based on user ratings. For instance, to access the card scheduled for a 'Good' rating:

```typescript
const good: RecordLogItem = scheduling_cards[Rating.Good];
const newCard: Card = good.card;
```

Get the new state of card for each rating:
```typescript
scheduling_cards[Rating.Again].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Again].log

scheduling_cards[Rating.Hard].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Hard].log

scheduling_cards[Rating.Good].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Good].log

scheduling_cards[Rating.Easy].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Easy].log
```

## 5. **Understanding Card Attributes**:
Each `Card` object consists of various attributes that determine its status, scheduling, and other metrics:

```typescript
type Card = {
  due: Date;           // Date when the card is next due for review
  stability: number;   // A measure of how well the information is retained
  difficulty: number;  // Reflects the inherent difficulty of the card content
  elapsed_days: number; // Days since the card was last reviewed
  scheduled_days: number; // The interval at which the card is next scheduled
  reps: number;          // Total number of times the card has been reviewed
  lapses: number;        // Times the card was forgotten or remembered incorrectly
  state: State;          // The current state of the card (New, Learning, Review, Relearning)
  last_review?: Date;    // The most recent review date, if applicable
};
```

## 6. **Understanding Log Attributes**:
Each `ReviewLog` object contains various attributes that determine the review record information associated with the card, used for analysis, undoing the review, and [optimization (WIP)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs-optimizer).

```typescript
type ReviewLog = {
    rating: Rating; // Rating of the review (Again, Hard, Good, Easy)
    state: State; // State of the review (New, Learning, Review, Relearning)
    due: Date;  // Date of the last scheduling
    stability: number; // Stability of the card before the review
    difficulty: number; // Difficulty of the card before the review
    elapsed_days: number; // Number of days elapsed since the last review
    last_elapsed_days: number; // Number of days between the last two reviews
    scheduled_days: number; // Number of days until the next review
    review: Date; // Date of the review
}
```

Commit message:

Doc/add ts fsrs workflow (#96)

README.md, after:

[Introduction](./README.md) | [简体中文](./README_CN.md) ｜[はじめに](./README_JP.md)

---

# About The
[![ts-fsrs npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ts-fsrs.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ts-fsrs)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ts-fsrs)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ts-fsrs)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/graph/badge.svg?token=E3KLLDL8QH)](https://codecov.io/gh/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs)
[![Build and Publish](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/npm-publish.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/npm-publish.yml)
[![Deploy](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/actions/workflows/deploy.yml)

ts-fsrs is a [ES modules package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c) based on TypeScript, used to implement the [Free Spaced Repetition Scheduler (FSRS) algorithm](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/free-spaced-repetition-scheduler). It helps
developers apply FSRS to their flashcard applications, there by improving the user learning experience.

The workflow for TS-FSRS can be referenced from the following resources:
> - google driver: [ts-fsrs-workflow.drawio](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FLKjpt4T3Iis02vjoA10q7vxKCWwClfR/view?usp=sharing) (You may provide commentary)
> - github: [ts-fsrs-workflow.drawio](./ts-fsrs-workflow.drawio)


# Usage
You need to run on Node.js (>=16.0.0) , using the `"type":"module"` by default in `package.json`.

```
npm install ts-fsrs
yarn install ts-fsrs
pnpm install ts-fsrs
```

# Example

```typescript
import {createEmptyCard, formatDate, fsrs, generatorParameters, Rating, Grades} from 'ts-fsrs';

const params = generatorParameters({ enable_fuzz: true });
const f = fsrs(params);
const card = createEmptyCard(new Date('2022-2-1 10:00:00'));// createEmptyCard();
const now = new Date('2022-2-2 10:00:00');// new Date();
const scheduling_cards = f.repeat(card, now);

// console.log(scheduling_cards);
Grades.forEach(grade => { // [Rating.Again, Rating.Hard, Rating.Good, Rating.Easy]
    const { log, card } = scheduling_cards[grade];
    console.group(`${Rating[grade]}`);
    console.table({
        [`card_${Rating[grade]}`]: {
            ...card,
            due: formatDate(card.due),
            last_review: formatDate(card.last_review as Date),
        },
    });
    console.table({
        [`log_${Rating[grade]}`]: {
            ...log,
            review: formatDate(log.review),
        },
    });
    console.groupEnd();
    console.log('----------------------------------------------------------------');
});
```

More refer:
- [Docs - Github Pages](https://open-spaced-repetition.github.io/ts-fsrs/)
- [Example.html - Github Pages](https://open-spaced-repetition.github.io/ts-fsrs/example)
- [Browser](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/ts-fsrs/blob/master/example/example.html) (ts-fsrs package using CDN)
- [ts-fsrs-demo - Next.js+Prisma](https://github.com/ishiko732/ts-fsrs-demo)
- [spaced - Next.js+Drizzle+tRPC](https://github.com/zsh-eng/spaced)

# Basic Use 

## 1. **Initialization**:
To begin, create an empty card instance and set the current date(default: current time from system):

```typescript
import { Card, createEmptyCard } from "ts-fsrs";
let card: Card = createEmptyCard();
// createEmptyCard(new Date('2022-2-1 10:00:00'));
// createEmptyCard(new Date(Date.UTC(2023, 9, 18, 14, 32, 3, 370)));
// createEmptyCard(new Date('2023-09-18T14:32:03.370Z'));
```

## 2. **Parameter Configuration**:
The library allows for customization of SRS parameters. Use `generatorParameters` to produce the final set of parameters for the SRS algorithm. Here's an example setting a maximum interval:

```typescript
import { Card, createEmptyCard, generatorParameters, FSRSParameters } from "ts-fsrs";
let card: Card = createEmptyCard();
const params: FSRSParameters = generatorParameters({ maximum_interval: 1000 });
```

## 3. **Scheduling with FSRS**:
The core functionality lies in the `fsrs` function. When invoked, it returns a collection of cards scheduled based on different potential user ratings:

```typescript
import {
  Card,
  createEmptyCard,
  generatorParameters,
  FSRSParameters,
  FSRS,
  RecordLog,
} from "ts-fsrs";

let card: Card = createEmptyCard();
const f: FSRS = new FSRS(); // or const f: FSRS = fsrs(params);
let scheduling_cards: RecordLog = f.repeat(card, new Date());
```

## 4. **Retrieving Scheduled Cards**:
Once you have the `scheduling_cards` object, you can retrieve cards based on user ratings. For instance, to access the card scheduled for a 'Good' rating:

```typescript
const good: RecordLogItem = scheduling_cards[Rating.Good];
const newCard: Card = good.card;
```

Get the new state of card for each rating:
```typescript
scheduling_cards[Rating.Again].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Again].log

scheduling_cards[Rating.Hard].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Hard].log

scheduling_cards[Rating.Good].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Good].log

scheduling_cards[Rating.Easy].card
scheduling_cards[Rating.Easy].log
```

## 5. **Understanding Card Attributes**:
Each `Card` object consists of various attributes that determine its status, scheduling, and other metrics:

```typescript
type Card = {
  due: Date;           // Date when the card is next due for review
  stability: number;   // A measure of how well the information is retained
  difficulty: number;  // Reflects the inherent difficulty of the card content
  elapsed_days: number; // Days since the card was last reviewed
  scheduled_days: number; // The interval at which the card is next scheduled
  reps: number;          // Total number of times the card has been reviewed
  lapses: number;        // Times the card was forgotten or remembered incorrectly
  state: State;          // The current state of the card (New, Learning, Review, Relearning)
  last_review?: Date;    // The most recent review date, if applicable
};
```

## 6. **Understanding Log Attributes**:
Each `ReviewLog` object contains various attributes that determine the review record information associated with the card, used for analysis, undoing the review, and [optimization (WIP)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs-optimizer).

```typescript
type ReviewLog = {
    rating: Rating; // Rating of the review (Again, Hard, Good, Easy)
    state: State; // State of the review (New, Learning, Review, Relearning)
    due: Date;  // Date of the last scheduling
    stability: number; // Stability of the card before the review
    difficulty: number; // Difficulty of the card before the review
    elapsed_days: number; // Number of days elapsed since the last review
    last_elapsed_days: number; // Number of days between the last two reviews
    scheduled_days: number; // Number of days until the next review
    review: Date; // Date of the review
}
```
